# GetCleanProject
Get and Clean Data Course Project - Coursera

The main goal of this document is to describe all the functions created for the final Coursera Project of _Getting and Cleaning Data_.

The script is broken as follows:
* run_analysis
* get_data
* extract
* renaming

The script *run_analysis* call all others script and generates the Final table, the tidy dataset generated by the data provided in Coursera.

The script *get_data* gets all data from the files: "X_train.txt", "y_train.txt", "subject_train.txt", "X_test.txt", "y_test.txt" and "subject_test.txt". To correctly get the data from the files, it was necessary to adjust some points, such as: removing double spaces and extras space at the beginning of the files.

The script *extract* arrange the data as defined for this task, all the variables in the original dataset which has the words "mean" or "std" were inserted in a new data set. This code also gets the names of columns, avoiding unnecessary reworks in the future to get these info. And, in order to help the writing of *CodeBook.md*, this script generate a *txt* file with all columns names.

Finally, the script *renaming* changes the activity number by its string value, i.e., it substitues de number by the activity name.

At the end of *run_analysis*, the *tabfinal* is the variable with the extract of the original datasets, only with the columns related to mean and standard deviations and the variable *Averages* stores the mean for each Subject and each Activity.
